# AMY release v1.1.0

This is the second post-gsoc release of AMY, the workshop management
tool for [Software-Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/). Below
you can find a release notes for
[v1.1.0](https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestones/v1.1).


## Announcement

We're very happy to announce that development of AMY versions 1.1, 1.2 and
1.3 is supported by [prof. Ethan White](http://whitelab.weecology.org/).
Thanks a lot!


## New features

-   New switch for Open/Closed requests (both profile update requests
    and workshop requests). Admins will be able to look up dismissed or
    finished requests.
-   "Recently changed" log was moved to a separate view so that it
    doesn't clutter the dashboard.
-   Some objects (events, hosts, persons, airports, tasks) are followed
    by [django-reversion](https://github.com/etianen/django-reversion).
    Thanks to that fact we can now show who+when created any of these
    objects and who+when last modified it.
-   Each event marked as "uninvoiced" can easily be invoiced by the
    admin thanks to the new "Invoice" button on the event's details
    page.
-   New report: people who have been through instructor training but
    didn't finish.
-   Self-organized workshops can now have a "self-organized" host.
-   New report: show how often instructors teach.
-   Admins can mark events as completed and throw them out of the filter
    results.
-   **Big**: events can have multiple TODO items associated with them.



## Bug fixes

-   Small typo in `README.md` fixed.
-   Logic for displaying uninvoiced events was fixed so that events
    marked as uninvoiced but without any admin fee do show up on the
    dashboard.
-   Fields layout on the profile update request details page was changed
    to avoid confusion.
-   Better wording in email request to workshop hosts for attendees
    figures.
