# AMY release v1.4.0

Intense month of January is almost behind us, so it's time for new AMY release.

Three versions have been released since [v1.3.0][]: [v1.3.1][], [v1.3.2][]
(both in separate release notes files) and finally [v1.4.0][].

Unfortunately, due to the way we have our project laid out on GitHub, some of
the features implemented for [v1.4.0][] before [v1.3.2][] were included in
the deployment; I will still put them here, though.

The biggest highlights of this month are definitely:

* first approach to the new API
* API reports
* merging events.

There were also some essential features, but not much. In v1.5 there will be
a lot more.

## Data fixing

We had to programmatically fix/complete some of our records:

* historical events on production server were assigned an administering
  organization (that's the one responsible for taking care of the workshop
  bureaucracy),
* new DC instructors were added: anyone with a special note or anyone who
  taught at DC workshop now has a `DC instructor` badge.

## New features

* `Person` model is now able to store person's occupation and ORCID code,
* events can hold links to survey results (pre-workshop for learners and for
  instructors, post-workshop for learners and for instructors, and long-term
  for learners),
* API call for getting members list is now for logged in users only, and
  returns members' usernames too,
* merging events: with option to select fields from either of events, or (in
  some cases) even to combine them together. The underlying code may be
  reused to fix persons merging,
* workshop issues page now allows to filter workshops by assigned admin
* move most of reports to the API; 3 reports now present a graph for easy use,
  1 report was requested to be moved to API, and 1 new report was requested
  (and [Piotr][] made it in API),
* API: new structure. It's using hyperlinks between resources and allows to
  view and filter for example people associated with specific events,
* slow tests were fixed (we gained probably around 10s on whole test suite,
  even though about 10-20 new tests were introduced); now it's time to speed up
  migrations,
* [Greg][] added two new badges to the database: maintainer and trainer; [Piotr][] made
  sure to allow for editing badges via Django Admin interface, and also added
  these new badges to the fake database command,
* [Greg][] also added a new command for getting list of people who should be warned
  because their instructor training was about to close,
* meanwhile [Piotr][] added a command for displaying report about instructor training
  completion rates.

## Bug fixes

* some fields containing numerical values were switched to other type of fields
  to prevent slider from appearing; the background for this issue was that
  when scrolling through a page with form, on MacOSX people would accidentally
  change values of numerical fields,
* generation of initial revisions was added to the process of creating a fake
  database for development use,
* some types of events (`stalled` and `unresponsive`) were kicked out from
  debrief lookup,
* some invoice options were changed to remain consistent with the rest.

[v1.3.0]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestones/v1.3
[v1.3.1]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestones/v1.3.1
[v1.3.2]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestones/v1.3.2
[v1.4.0]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestones/v1.4
[Greg]: https://github.com/gvwilson
[Piotr]: https://github.com/pbanaszkiewicz
