# AMY release v2.1.0

Major AMY [v2.1.0][] was released on 2018-09-28.

Most notable features of this release are instructor training seats mechanism
and training applicants scoring mechanism. More on them in "New features"
below.

## New features
* [Piotr][] upgraded Django to v2.1 and included some other deployment-related
  features: "AMY_" prefix for all env vars, moved includable templates to
  a separate directory, removed logout page (instead we get redirected to login
  page with a message), and sped-up All Events page.
* [Piotr][] brought back sticky navigation bar - it was removed in v2.0.
* [Piotr][] added ORCID to `PersonSerialized` in API.
* Big: [Piotr][] extended Memberships to include training seats mechanism; it
  helps admins keep track of and control people assigned to Instructor Training
  events out of their organization Membership.
* Big: [Piotr][] added Training Requests (semi-automated) scoring mechanism,
  for admins' convenience.


## Bugfixes
* [Jonah][] fixed Google Maps API (it wasn't showing maps properly).
* [Piotr][] removed old residues of [Bower][] that somehow survived v2.0.0
  release.
* [Piotr][] fixed missing pagination and not working correctly filters on
  workshop requests page.
* [Piotr][] made a bunch of fixes and improvements to the Instructors by date
  report page (speed-ups, visual improvements, colorization etc.).
* Big: [Piotr][] adjusted `EventRequest`, `EventSubmission` and
  `DCSelfOrganizedEventRequest` so that they have the same features:
  - the same states (pending, accepted, discarded)
  - the same actions (accept & create new event, change state to accepted,
    discard, edit).
* [Piotr][] hunted and fixed JavaScript loading error in #1334.
* [Piotr][] unified some forms buttons (they were displaying "Cancel" button).


[v2.1.0]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestone/48
[Bower]: https://bower.io/
[Jonah]: https://github.com/jduckles
[Piotr]: https://github.com/pbanaszkiewicz
