# AMY release v2.2.0

Major AMY [v2.2.0][] was released on 2018-11-01.

Most notable feature of this release if the new unified
[workshop request form](https://amy.software-carpentry.org/forms/workshop/).

## New features
* [Piotr][] upgraded Python and front-end dependencies, and later discovered
  that one Python dependency degraded, so it was reverted.
* [Piotr][] disabled profile upgrade requests - from now on people are forced
  to use their AMY account to upgrade.
* [Piotr][] added bulk upload of manual scores for training applications.
* [Piotr][] added multiple refinements to the all training requests page:
  - display of `group` and `affiliation` columns,
  - contact email changed to the one provided if no person is matching given
    record, or to the one from matched person otherwise.
* Big: [Piotr][] removed TODOs from AMY.
* Big: [Piotr][] implemented a new unified workshop form, replacing three
  now-deprecated models/forms: EventRequest, EventSubmission,
  DCSelfOrganizedEventRequest. The mechanics of this new form (changing state,
  accepting and creating an event, editing) are taken from the deprecated
  forms.
* [Piotr][], as part of new unified form, added curriculum identificators to
  the form and to event objects.
* [Piotr][] added revision history tree to object history view, so that it's
  possible to browse through various change revisions and compare them.
* [Piotr][] implemented a new admin notification emails propagation - emails
  are sent to various addresses depending on the country of the request object.


## Bugfixes
* [Piotr][] fixed bugs in Memberships filter.
* [Piotr][] fixed instructor badges display bug.
* [Kunal][] fixed outdated README.
* [Piotr][] brought back removed code from Bootstrap3->4 migration, which was
  used to display form buttons on top of the forms (as addition to only bottom
  of the form).
* [Piotr][] added missing instructor training seat details on the Organization
  details page.


[v2.2.0]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestone/49
[Kunal]: https://github.com/marwahaha
[Piotr]: https://github.com/pbanaszkiewicz
