# AMY release v2.3.0

Major AMY [v2.3.0][] was released, with a delay, on 2018-12-13.

The biggest highlight of this release is definitely not very visible to
end-users: code reorganization into applications (modules). Current AMY
internal modules structure is described in
[models in applications](../models_in_applications.md) document.

Changes made to workshop request form are also noticeable.


## New features
* [Piotr][] reorganized code into smaller and more themed modules (e.g. forms
  accessible to unauthorized users are in `extforms`, user requests are in
  `extrequests`, fiscal stuff is in `fiscal`, etc.).
* [Piotr][] added a small warning for trainings that fall out of agreement
  dates.
* [Piotr][] updated `Person` model with a lesson publication consent field; the
  field is editable from person edit form (by admins), from self-update form
  (by users themselves), and is exposed to authorized users via API.
* [Piotr][] added new `Tag`s: ITT, LSO and LMO, and also changed display of
  tags in AMY (now they offer a tooltip with long name).
* [Piotr][] removed `Event.admin_fee` and `Event.invoice_status` from display
  in various places.
* [Piotr][] started working on deployment automation, which resulted in
  expanded test suite coverage (now for Python 3.6 and 3.7-dev!), and two
  additional settings read from envvars.
* finally, [Piotr][] fixed and improved multiple issues reported for workshop
  request form.


## Bugfixes
* [Drew][] added missing Library Carpentry links that should be available on
  form confirmation page.
* [Piotr][] fixed bulk upload server error.
* [Piotr][] fixed some corner-case migration file reading default encoding for
  non-UTF-8 operating systems.


[v2.3.0]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestone/50
[Piotr]: https://github.com/pbanaszkiewicz
[Drew]: https://github.com/dheles
