# AMY release v2.9.0

Major AMY release [v2.9.0][] was issued on 2019-09-16, almost three months
after previous major release v2.8.0.

This release sports a big project, three (instead of one) workshop request
forms:

* inquiry form for people just coming to The Carpentries,
* request form for people who know precisely what they want,
* self-organised workshop submission form for instructors, who want their
  self-organised workshop to be recorded.

## New features

* [Piotr][] upgraded Django to latest version v2.2.5.
* [Piotr][] added new option for Lesson Publication Consent field.
* [Piotr][] added "Chemistry" for auto-scoring mechanism for the
  Instructor Training Request.
* [Piotr][] implemented a big project called Three Workshop Request Forms.
* on top of that changes, [Piotr][] changed Training Request form to work
  better with people who tend to forget to provide registration code.


## Bug fixes

* [Maneesha][] fixed login page - now the columns have clear headers and in
  case of troubles, a contact email is provided.
* [François][] fixed sysadmin email address (for error messages).
* [Piotr][] added lesson publication consent field displayed in user's profile
  after logging in.
* [Piotr][] replaced troublesome Django-Autocomplete-Light with much better
  (so far) Django-Select2 in his quest to use best autocompletion for AMY.
* [François][] fixed small typo in user profile's page.
* [Maneesha][] replaced wrong GitHub repo address with correct one in the AMY
  footer.


[v2.9.0]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy/milestone/60
[Piotr]: https://github.com/pbanaszkiewicz
[Maneesha]: https://github.com/maneesha
[François]: https://github.com/fmichonneau
